Accessibility anywhere, with any device
each branch or office across various states or countries. The improved accessibility doesn’t just impact employees; clients and customers can also log in to an account and access their information as well. This ensures everyone has up-to-date information whether they’re at the office or on the go.

Ability to get rid of most or all hardware and software
With cloud computing, you’re no longer required to have your own server, cables, network switches, backup generators, redundant routers, and so on. Depending on the cloud provider you choose, they can manage all of this for a monthly fee. Reducing expenses is essential in any business model and every cloud-based platform benefits from this factor alone.

Centralized data security
When you use cloud computing, data backups are centralized in the cloud providers' data centers, removing the need for individual users or teams to maintain their own backups onsite or offsite. This lowers the risk of data loss should any one backup fail or be destroyed by a disaster. Cloud providers can restore the data from another copy maintained in their cloud storage, which is continuously updated with every piece of data added.

Teams can take advantage of cloud security technologies such as data encryption and two-factor authentication for greater privacy than they'd have when relying on their own equipment or servers at home or in the office. Oracle uses a security-first cloud architecture with automated protection built in.

Higher performance and availability
By using cloud computing resources together simultaneously, you reap greater performance gains than by having your own dedicated server hardware. Cloud computing increases input/output operations per second (IOPS).

Learn about cloud computing economics

Cloud services also offer high availability with no downtime because they’re distributed across multiple cloud facilities. Cloud providers are responsible for updating cloud systems and fixing bugs and security issues in cloud software, which is transparent to end users.

Quick application deployment
Unpredictable business needs often require cloud computing resources on short notice. You can improve your cloud application development by quickly deploying cloud applications because they are readily available without the need to procure additional hardware or wait for IT staff to set up servers.

In addition you can choose from a broad range of services that support different types of cloud infrastructure technologies.

Instant business insights
Cloud-based platforms provide a unique opportunity to access data as soon as it’s collected. This facilitates better decision-making as well as insight into what the future may hold for your organization based on predictions from historical data.

Business continuity
In the event of disaster or unforeseen circumstances, do you have an effective backup plan? If not, relying on cloud computing services can benefit your organization. Cloud computing uses infinite data storage space and systems that can be activated remotely if necessary to ensure business continuity.

Price-performance and cost savings
Although an initial financial investment is required to implement a cloud strategy, organizations save substantial amounts in the long run because they don’t have to maintain expensive hardware or local data centers. Also, since there are no upfront costs to use cloud-based systems, businesses can test them out before investing in them at their own pace. Oracle provides price-performance and flexible sizing.

Learn more about cloud pricing

Virtualized computing
Cloud computing is perfect for virtualized computer environments because cloud resources can be allocated instantly to support significant increases in demand so you never experience downtime again. With cloud computing, your business can expand its capabilities almost effortlessly to meet growing demands without increasing staff or capital expenditures